>> Ben Hong: So first thing first,
Composition API.
Anytime you create a reusable
function with Composition API,
we have landed on the term composables.
Not my favorite, but
it's what we landed on.
So just know that going forward,
when you're looking at code bases and
you see over here, this little Composables
folder, that is what that is referring to.
Basically Composition API functions
that you will be using inside of your
code base.
So the question is obviously,
what are composables, exactly?
And so they're basically functionality
that you want to reuse throughout your
components.
That's really what they are.
Let's just give a quick
demo of what that means.
All right, I'm on my begin branch and then
let me switch over to the exercise branch
so that that can get committed, great.
Okay, so we have our Composables folder.
And let's start by taking
a look at our task page, right?
And so you notice here on the task page we
got there's a lot of stuff happening here.
In fact, I'm noticing there is,
let's see, there's a lot of weak stuff.
Filter tasks, so look, filter tasks, this
looks like a very task specific thing.
And as we can see here, it's actually
being used in two different places.
It's being used within the store,
which we'll talk more about later,
as well as within this page here.
So this is something that's clearly right
for some type of refactoring because
basically, yep, there's no point in
them having two different places.
So let's go ahead and
just refactor this so we can use it.
So first thing first,
we're gonna go ahead and
we're gonna create a new file inside
of our Composables directory.
And so the standard for all composables
is that you prefix it with the word use.
And so in this case we're just
gonna call it useTask.ts.
And again, it's a typescript file,
but don't worry,
we're really not using very
much typescript at all, if any.
So then what I basically would
do is I would go ahead and
basically cut this out and
throw this over here and then that's gone.
And then I'd go ahead and
take a look at the task store.
And where is that filter?
Here you go, here's the filter.
So this is the actual method as we can see
here, there is a lot is going on here.
So what we're gonna do is I'm gonna
do the controversial thing and
we'll talk about this more
when do stores later.
I am actually gonna take this out of
the store and put it in a composable.
So here we're gonna take
the filter task method.
And so this actually I'm just
gonna replace this one right here.
And then, so we have the filters, and
then that is a function that will, yep.
And then what we need to do then is
be able to access the task list.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
actually say task list is going to
be a task like this that
we're gonna pass in.
And so it'll be basically an argument
that we're passing into our composable.
And then I think everything
is mostly good from there.
All we need to do now is import
the type to say it's a type task and
that it uses task filters, and
then we're gonna export this as such.
And there you go,
now it's formatting correctly.
Okay, so now what we have here is
a reusable JavaScript function, right?
That's what we have.
And so what we can do now is
inside of our task store.
I actually can leave it out because the
only place is actually being called was
here inside of the filter method.
But I no longer need this anymore because
what I can do then is basically say,
okay, I'm gonna import filter
tasks from my composable use task.
That's really all a composable is.
It's allowing us to basically modularize
parts of our script setup block into
different files that we can then import.
Really that's what it is at its simplest.
And I wanna emphasize that because I
remember when I first was introduced to
this sort of concept, and
if you're new to JavaScript,
it can feel kind of intimidating
to move stuff to files and
then especially if you don't
know how imports work.
We'll talk a bit more about
naming strategy in a sec.
But this is really at its core what it is.
And so the reason Composables have become
very popular is because rather than
grouping things via how they work in VUE,
so in Vantre, we used to have stack,
actions, getter, so we would organize them
via data computed and all those things.
You can now organize them via
functionality, via features as this,
rather than calling some sort of filter.
We know that this is associated with our
task feature, so we can drag that in.
And so let's drag one more thing here.
Let's say format status.
This is very specific actually to tasks,
but it actually looks like it's generic.
But from what I remember,
this one is pretty specific.
So we can take that out.
And let's see,
I like to do things alphabetical if I can.
So there you go.
This is filter.
So we're gonna have the format status,
but label, I like to be
very specific with these so that you
can tell kind of what is going on here.
So for my task status, label,
I think will be good enough.
And then all we gotta do to expose
anything is the export keyword.
That is the main thing here.
Once you have that, we can go ahead.
And now at the top,
we can import format tasks label.
But it was format status before, so
we need to make sure we update
that format task status label.